---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Module 3/3.4 - Velocity and Other Rates of Change.md","permalink":"/module-3/3-4-velocity-and-other-rates-of-change/","created":"","updated":""}
---

## Motion along a straight line
- Remember that speed = distance/time.
- [Helpful document](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B-pGUeZR4AHuQkZfYUFxQzJaR3M/view?resourcekey=0-J4zalRaa6cx8wIviWz5yjw)
### Velocity
- This is *implied instantaneous velocity*.
- The first derivative of the position function is the velocity function – $s(t)$ is $s'(t)=v(t)$.
- The particle stops when $v=0$.
- The particle is moving right (or up) if the velocity is positive. The particle is moving left (or down) if the velocity is negative.
- A particle is speeding up if the signs of velocity and acceleration are the same sign. A particle is slowing down if the signs of velocity and acceleration are opposite signs.
#### Average velocity
- This is displacement/travel time.
### Acceleration
- This is *implied instantaneous acceleration*.
- It’s the second derivation of the position function, or the first derivative of velocity – $s''(t)=v'(t)=a(t)$.
#### Average acceleration
- Equal to $\frac{\nabla v}{\nabla t}$ or change in velocity/change in time.
### Speed
- This is just the absolute value of velocity.
### Displacement
- Displacement is the change in position (final position - starting position).
## Economics
- **Average Cost:** $\displaystyle\frac{C(x)}{x}$
- **Average Increase in Cost:** $\displaystyle\frac{C(x+h)-C(x)}{h}$
- **Marginal Cost:** Estimates the cost of producing one unit beyond the present level of production – $\displaystyle\lim_{ h \to 0 }\left( \frac{C(x+h)-C(x)}{h} \right)$
- **“actual additional cost”:**  $C(x + h) – C(x)$
- **Demand Function:** Expresses the relationship between unit price and the quantity demanded – $p = f(x)$
- **Revenue:** $R(x) = px$
- **Marginal Revenue:** $R'(x)$
	- Estimates the increase in revenue that will result from selling one additional unit
	- **“actual additional revenue made”** $R(x + h) – R(x)$
- **Profit**: $P(x) = R(x) – C(x)$
- **Marginal Profit:** Measures the rate of change of the profit function P and provides us with a good approximation of the actual profit or loss realized from the sale of 1 more unit of an item sold – $P x'()$
	- **“actual gain in profit”**: $P(x + h) – P(x)$